[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: For those of you
who haven't maybe seen Express before,
I'm just gonna do a very brief demo of
some of the key things that you'll want to
accomplish when you're building
an Express application.
So I'm just gonna do one from scratch to
kind of demonstrate how Express works.
And here in this directory, I've actually
already downloaded the Express module, so
I can write a simple node
program that's going to use it.
So I'm gonna create a new file, index.js,
which is gonna be our
simple Express application.
I'm going to open that up.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
in my text editor here, I'm gonna be
able to require the Express module.
And I'm gonna repeat some things that
if you've been doing node for a while,
you probably already know.
So I apologize for that, but
there are lots of folks in the room and
online whom some of this
stuff might be new.
So I'll break it down as best I can,
and feel free to shoot in any
questions that you have along the way.
So the first thing I'm gonna hue is
require Express as a common JS module.
And this is the modularization
mechanism provided
natively in node JS.
>> Speaker 3: And if we could, in the text
editor too, if we can bump [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kevin Whinnery: Sure thing,
I could probably go a little bit bigger.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so there is a global function in
a node program called require.
And when I pass into name, it's going
to try to find a module of that name.
So if it's just a string like this,
like express,
it's gonna reference the node module path.
And the way that,
that is resolved is in a couple of ways.
First locally, here in this directory,
if there's a node modules folder,
it's going to look in here and
say, there's something called
Express in this node modules folder.
So I'm gonna load that module from there.
And after that, if it doesn't find
Express in a local node modules folder,
it'll actually start walking up
the folders up above that, looking for
node modules and failing that, it will
look for globally installed node modules.
So if you've installed express globally,
it will require that
version of the module.
If you want to require local
modules that you've created,
which we'll do here in a second, there's
a slightly different syntax for that.
But now, I've created this express object
which represents the express library.
And I'm gonna create an application
just using the Express constructor or
the Express builder, I would say,
it's not really a constructor function.
And with that application,
I can start defining routes to handle
incoming HTTP peer requests or
I can start configuring middleware.
But before I do that,
the Express module does have the capacity
to start like a built in HTTP
server which we'll do on port 3000,
so that'll actually start listening for
requests.
Typically, you don't use the built
in HTTP server like this, but
for demonstration purposes, we'll do that.
And there's a couple ways were I can
define handlers in my application.
And app.use is a way that I can define
a middleware function for my application.
So use expects a function as an argument.
And a middleware function will have
an area of three so it'll take three
arguments which is going to be
the request, your response, and next.
And next is a callback function that
is going to be called to continue on
processing the request after
the middleware has finished executing.
So in this case, a common use case for
a middleware is to check for
an authenticated user, and
then add that user's information to the
current quest for downstream processing.
So I could say, request user equals
name Kevin or something like that.
Maybe I would check the cookies associated
with the request and get some data there.
But I would do some processing on
the request and or the response.
And then whenever I'm done
executing that logic,
I'll just call next, and
then the request will continue processing.
And then when I want to handle specific,
yes,
question.
>> Speaker 4: Is there a meaningful
difference between declaring
your app variable and
using a let versus a var?
>> Kevin Whinnery: The difference
with let is block scope.
It's actually the scope in
which the variable is declared.
So with var,
the scope is always going to be
whatever the enclosing
meaning of this would be.
So if this code were to execute in
the browser, outside of a function scope,
if I did var app, that would
declare the app variable globally.
Let declares variables
within the scope of a block.
So in this case, this method is
visible to my entire application.
But if it was declared
within an if block or
some other other kind of block within
the application, it would only be scoped.
It would only be visible
within that block.
So you can basically
use it in place of var.
And it usually means what you want it
to mean which is declare this variable
inside the current block scope.
So in the const is for variables yet
you don't expect to change,
they should be immutable, essentially.
So we create the application,
we define some middleware.
And then we can handle specific HTTP
methods on the application as well.
So when a browser makes a web
request to our web application,
that's an HTTP get request.
So on our application object,
I can say get, whenever there's
a get request to slash hello in my web
application, I want to execute some logic.
And in this case, I'm just going to create
a callback function with a request and
a response.
Technically, I don't even need these other
parens but it's a hard habit to break, and
I'm probably not ever going to use it.
Never gonna to break it, I don't think.
But at this point, I'm probably going to
render an actual response to this route.
So now, I'm gonna say response.send,
and response.send will send back
different content types depending on
the kind of object that you pass it.
If you pass it a string,
it will assume that you're trying
to send HTML back to the client.
If you pass it, a JavaScript object,
it'll serialize it to JSON, and
assume you wanna send
JSON back to the client.
So in this case,
I'm gonna send back a string that says,
hello, request.user.name.
And it's gonna use that value which
was defined in the middleware to
actually insert that name into the HTML
response that I'm sending back.
And this is another newish
feature that I won't beat in, but
it's possible to do string interpolation
in this version of node using the back
ticks rather than the single ticks.
So it's just one of those niceties that
is snuck into the language recently.
So if I save that up and run the program.
No, yeah, I'm actually already
running something on port 3000.
That would be why.
Okay, so now, I have a little Express
application running on port 3000.
And if I Visit hello in the browser,
I see Hello Kevin
which is based on the result of that
middleware stack that I defined.
Now, the way and typically, if you as
an application developer are creating
your own middleware, you don't probably
wanna define middleware in this way.
Most of the middleware that you see,
that you'll use from NPM or
else we're on ecosystem, will actually
define a constructor function
which returns a function that
you can use as middleware.
So in this case, I'll just
demonstrate that technique really
quickly by creating a new file,
we'll call it middleware.js.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And in this case,
I'm gonna create a function that's
going to accept some arguments,
and then produce a middleware
function as a response.
So I'm gonna do a function called create.
And it'll accept an argument
like a user name.
And this create function is itself
going to return a function.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Which will
be the actual middleware
that's actually not necessary.
So this will be the actual middleware
function that you can mount in
your application.
So if we copy over kind of what we
did here, we get request.user.name.
So we put that processing
logic inside of this
middleware function,
excuse me, let's do that.
But now, instead of like hard
coding the name that we send back,
we'll just pass in the username
that was configured here.
And in this way,
you can essentially parametrize
the creation of your middleware, so
you can have middleware behave differently
based on the arguments that are passed.
And so typically, this is how you're
gonna wanna construct some middleware.
And then to actually make
that create function,
the public interface by module,
I will assign that
function that I just
created to module.exports.
So now,
I can require my own middleware by passing
in a relative path to the module
that I'd like to require.
So in this case,
it's gonna be in the same directory.
It was called middleware.
So I'm gonna require
that middleware function.
And now, rather than having
the function inline there,
I'm going to say,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Gonna
change up my middle ware to
pass in a different name.
And now, if I kill that process and
restart it, go back out to my server.
I have a parametrized middleware that
does something slightly different.
So again, if you're developing your own
middleware that's typically the way that
you're gonna structure it with
a factory function that will, in fact,
return a function based on
the parameters that you pass in.
Any questions on Express or middleware
right away before we keep trucking?
Or things that you'd like further
information on before we tried ourselves?